# 1889H-Team-3
BTC1889H - Final Project Submission for Team 3

Deep Learning in Health – BTC1889H

Semester: Winter 2025-2026

Team Project: Deep Learning models for text data

 

You will need to prepare both a report and a presentation. For both report and presentation, the weight distribution between the two components is 35-65. The presentation will be 12min. Both report and presentation deck need to be submitted at Quercus by the Team Captains by April 6 at 5pm.

 

General Instructions

In this project you will use a dataset on tweets on Coronavirus, previously pulled from Twitter. The tweets have been tagged manually, and assigned one of five types of sentiments (from extremely negative to extremely positive). The data have divided into two csv files, one for training Download trainingand one for testing. Download testing.The csv files contain the actual tweets, the sentiment class, and some other information, which you will ignore here.

The objective is to build, train and assess the performance of three types of Deep Learning Neural Network models, specifically FF, RNN and LSTM, for correctly classifying the tweets into the five sentiment types.

Some specific instructions and suggestions:

- Preprocess the text data and labels, using steps similar to the ones followed in the examples in tutorials 9-10. Use reasonable values for the parameters num_words and maxlen, considering also the characteristics of the text data.

- Each network will need to use an embedding layer, of an appropriate size.

- For each network, use appropriate parameters and settings, consistent with the size and dimensionality of the data.

- Use a reasonable batch size, and a percentage of data for validation.

- Ensure you record the results for future use and reporting.

- For each network, start with a single layer (after the embedding one), but then assess if the performance of the network improves by adding a second layer. That is, start with a hidden dense layer for the FF, a single recurrent layer for the RNN etc., but then add a second layer of the same type and assess if the performance improves.

- For each of the types of networks, assess if dropout improves the model.

- Identify the best performance model from one of the three kinds, and evaluate and compare their performance using the test data and labels.

- Select an appropriate metric for multi-class classification. Consider building your own metric that takes into account the ordinal nature of the labels (from extremely negative to extremely positive).

 

Format of the report to be submitted

The format of the report will be that of a scientific paper. It needs to include the following sections: Introduction, Methods, Results and Discussion/Conclusions. You can use unlimited number of figures and tables in the main text, but irrelevant and unnecessary figures and tables will be penalized. You have no restrictions in the material you can use as Supplementary. All tables and figures (in both main text and supplementary material) need to have proper formatting (including tables as images is not allowed), numbering and captions.

You do not need to use RMarkdown for generating the report, but you are allowed to do so. The file type of the report can be pdf or Word document. If you decide to use RMarkdown, make sure that the report is generated by the .rmd file.

Do not copy and paste R output directly to your report. The grading breakdown is given in the syllabus.

The R code needs to be submitted as a separate R script file, and it should use proper documentation, unless you decide to use RMarkdown, in which case the Rmd file needs to be submitted as well.
